N29: Release (#909)
rust-gamedev/rust-gamedev.github.io: content/news/029/index.md

[bitgun-cutscenes]: https://twitter.com/LogLogGames/status/1479752293306273792
[bitgun-name]: https://loglog.games/pages/name-your-zombie/

### [vange-rs WebAssembly Port][vangers-wasm-post]

![Cars, some terrain with roads and lava](vangers.jpeg)

[vange.rs] is the project of re-implementing the [Vangers] game (from 1998)
in Rust using modern development practices, parallel computations, and GPU.

> This month [@caiiiycuk] ported it on "wasm32-unknown-emscripten" target

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This month [@caiiiycuk] ported it to the "wasm32-unknown-emscripten" target
```

via wgpu's GLES3 backend and [posted an article][vangers-wasm-post]
about the process and observations.

> The wev version of vange-rs can be [played online here][vangers-wasm-play].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The web version of vange-rs can be [played online here][vangers-wasm-play].
```

[Nathan Stocks]: https://github.com/CleanCut

### [Pyxel]

![Examples: drawing methods, sound, tilemap and music editors](pyxel.png)

[Pyxel] ([Discord][pyxel-discord]) by [@kitao] is a retro game engine
(inspired by [PICO-8] and [TIC-80]) that uses Python for scripting:

- 16 color palette,
- 256x256 sized 3 image banks,
- 256x256 sized 8 tilemaps,
- 4 channels with 64 definable sounds,
- 8 peces of music which can combine arbitrary sounds,
- Image and sound editor,
- Keyboard, mouse, and gamepad inputs.

Check out the [official][pyxel-examples1]
and [user-provided][pyxel-examples2] examples.

[Pyxel]: https://github.com/kitao/pyxel
[@kitao]: https://twitter.com/kitao
[PICO-8]: https://lexaloffle.com/pico-8.php
[TIC-80]: https://tic80.com
[pyxel-discord]: https://discord.gg/FC7kUZJ
[pyxel-examples1]: https://github.com/kitao/pyxel#try-pyxel-examples
[pyxel-examples2]: https://github.com/kitao/pyxel/wiki/Pyxel-User-Examples

## Learning Material Updates

### [Rust SFML Windows Setup][sfml-video]

[![youtube preview: ping pong window and some dev windows in background](youtube-sfml-win.jpg)][sfml-video]

[@TheFern2] published a [video tutorial][sfml-video] on how to

> set up Rust with [SFML bindings][sfml] on Windows users (using MSVC C++).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
set up Rust with [SFML bindings][sfml] for Windows users (using MSVC C++).
```

> sfml's [wiki page with instructions for Wndows][sfml-wiki-win] was also updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rust-sfml's [wiki page with instructions for Windows][sfml-wiki-win] was also updated.
```

and other common loseless image formats
for game engines given its simplicity and blazing fast encoding and decoding.

[rapid-qoi] has a simple API, zero unsafe, zero dependencies,
fast build times and high performance.
It is compatible with finalized QOI spec published in December.

[rapid-qoi]: https://github.com/zakarumych/rapid-qoi

### [ash] v0.34

[ash] is lightweight wrapper around Vulkan.

This month [v0.34 was released][ash-0-3-4]. Highlights include:

- Now ash defaults to linking Vulkan directly, which saves the libloading dep
  and is more idiomatic for apps that don't have a fallback.
- Debug impls can be disabled for a faster build.
- More extensions and lots of miscellaneous API cleanup.

[ash]: https://github.com/MaikKlein/ash
[ash-0-3-4]: https://github.com/MaikKlein/ash/releases/tag/0.34.0

## Other News

<!-- One-liners for plan items that haven't got their own sections. -->

> - Other game updates

Reviewer: Nested list here was a good idea :+1: Might look nicer with a `:` after each subheading?

  - [BENDYWORM] now [runs on Linux natively](
    https://twitter.com/bauxitedev/status/1467817606111498240).
  - [Rust Shooter progress report][rust-shooter]:

>     enemies are propper player entities with rudimentry AI now,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    enemies are proper player entities with rudimentry AI now,
```

    new indoor environment.

>   - [aous] is a GameOff'21 game about the survival of a mutating ant colony.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [aous] is a Game Off '21 game about the survival of a mutating ant colony.
```
